 ---
layout: sammyjs-redirect 
title: Sammy
github_name: sammy
current_version: 0.6.2 
nav:
  - name: Overview 
    link: index.html
    sub:
      - name: What
        link: "#what"
      - name: Why
        link: "#why"
      - name: Basics
        link: "#usage"
      - name: More!
        link: "#more"
  - name: Installation
    link: install.html
  - name: Documentation
    link: docs/index.html
  - name: Tutorials
    link: tutorials/index.html
  - name: Resources
    link: http://github.com/quirkey/sammy/wiki/
  
---


h2(project_name). Sammy

h3(#what). What

Sammy is a tiny javascript framework built on top of jQuery. It's RESTful Evented JavaScript.

h3(#why). Why

jQuery is probably the fastest, most robust way to abstract basic low-level Javascript functionality that every Javascript developer needs. However, it really remains low-level and does not imply any structure or organization for larger scale Javascript applications. 

Working heavily with "Sinatra":http://www.sinatrarb.com, I realized that the simple route definitions and structure it provided could be a great fit with jQuery/JavaScript. Not only does it allow you to respond to specific URLs, but utilizing the URL hash (#) you can create single page applications that still respond to the back button in your browser (ala Gmail).

I started off on this project thinking "It would be cool to implement Sinatra in JavaScript". Sammy has become more than that, I've tried to follow JS and jQuery conventions instead of Ruby and its made for a small (< 20K) library for defining simple to complex applications.

I see Sammy as a great way to build simple to complex applications built upon RESTful data stores like "CouchDB":http://couchdb.apache.org/ or "Cloudkit.":http://getcloudkit.com Theres an example of Cloudkit integration in "examples/backend/":http://github.com/quirkey/sammy/tree/master/examples/backend

h3(#basics). Basics

A Sammy application revolves around 'routes'. Routes consist of a verb, a path, and a callback (See more in "'Routes'":docs/routes.html). Not only can you define 'get' and 'post' routes, but you can also bind routes to custom events triggered by your application.

You set up a Sammy Application by passing a Function to the @$.sammy@ (which is a shortcut for the Sammy.Application constructor).

{% highlight javascript %}
$.sammy(function() {

  this.get('#/', function() {
    $('#main').text('Welcome!');
  });

});
{% endhighlight %}

Inside of the 'app' function() @this@ is the Application. This is where you can configure the application and add routes.

Above, we defined a @get()@ route. When the browser is pointed to @#/@ the function passed to that route will be run. Inside of the route function, @this@ is a @Sammy.EventContext@. EventContext has a bunch of special methods and properties including a params hash, the ability to redirect, render partials, and more.

Once you've defined an application the only thing left to do is run it. The best practice behavior is to encapsulate @run()@ in a document.ready block:

{% highlight javascript %}
var app = $.sammy(...)

$(function() {
  app.run();
});
{% endhighlight %}

This will guarantee that the DOM is loaded before we try to apply functionality to it.

h3(#more). More!

I've split up the information into a couple different sections. 

* "Documentation":docs/index.html
* "Tutorials":tutorials/index.html
* "Examples":http://github.com/quirkey/sammy/tree/master/examples/
* "Resources on the Sammy Wiki":http://github.com/quirkey/sammy/wiki/

Ways to stay informed/get in contact:

* "Twitter: @sammy_js":http://twitter.com/sammy_js
* "Chat with us in #sammy on IRC":irc://irc.freenode.net/sammy
* "Join the Mailing List":http://groups.google.com/group/sammyjs <form action="http://groups.google.com/group/sammyjs/boxsubscribe"> Email: <input type='text' name='email'><input type='submit' name="sub" value="Subscribe"></form>
