---
layout: quirkey_code_multi
title: Sammy - Resources
github_name: sammy
current_version: 0.3.1 
nav:
  - name: Overview 
    link: index.html
    sub:
      - name: What
        link: "#what"
      - name: Why
        link: "#why"
      - name: Basics
        link: "#usage"
      - name: More!
        link: "#more"
  - name: Installation
    link: install.html
  - name: Documentation
    link: docs/index.html
  - name: Tutorials
    link: tutorials/index.html
  - name: Resources
    link: resources.html
---

h2(project_name). Sammy

h2. Resources

This is an ever growing list of resources about Sammy on the web. If you have something to add please DM @sammy_js or fork and add it yourself!

h3. Presentations/Slides

* "Sammy.js: Simple Structure for your Sites - jQueryConf 2009":http://c.ixxr.net/swinger/_design/swinger/index.html#/preso/jqcon_09/display/1
* "All about Sammy - PDX.js":http://www.slideshare.net/joydivider/sammy
* "Sammy.js - NYC.js June 2009":http://quirkey.com/sammy-presentations/nyc.js_june3/slides.html#0

h3. Blog Posts/Articles

* "Sammy - a jQuery Web Framework":http://dobbscodetalk.com/index.php?option=com_myblog&show=Sammy---A-jQuery-Web-Framework.html&Itemid=29
* "Practical uses for Sammy":http://blog.joecorcoran.co.uk/past/2009/7/2/practical_uses_for_sammy/
* "QuirkeyBlog: Sammy":http://www.quirkey.com/blog/category/sammy/

h3. Open Source Projects that include/use Sammy

* "boom_amazing":http://github.com/langalex/boom_amazing - 	a couchapp that lets you run (and later replay) a presentation by panning, rotating and zooming in an svg file
* "processing-js-studio":http://github.com/hpoydar/processing-js-studio Web-based application to store Processing JS sketches and renderings.
* "swinger":http://github.com/quirkey/swinger - Keynote like tool built with Couchapp and Sammy.js
* "sinatra-sammy":http://github.com/quirkey/sinatra-sammy - Sinatra extension for easily creating single page sinatra apps
* "oneforty":http://github.com/quirkey/oneforty/ - entirely client-side twitter client

h3. Sammy in the wild

* "photowall":http://www.photowall.com/
* "qui.tw":http://qui.tw/