---
layout: quirkey_code_multi
title: Sammy - Documentation - API
github_name: sammy
current_version: 0.6.2
nav:
  - name: Overview
    link: ../index.html
  - name: Installation
    link: ../install.html
  - name: Documentation
    link: index.html
    sub:
      - name: Routes
        link: routes.html
      - name: Events
        link: events.html
      - name: Plugins
        link: plugins.html
      - name: FAQ
        link: faq.html
      - name: API
        link: api.html
  - name: Tutorials
    link: ../tutorials/index.html
  - name: Resources
    link: http://github.com/quirkey/sammy/wiki/
---

h2(project_name). Sammy

h2. Documentation

h3. Routes

The main building block of a Sammy application is a set of routes. A route is made up of three simple pieces:

* A verb _(get, post, put, delete*)_ 
* A path _(#/, test/path/, #/my_path/:var)_
* A callback _(function() {...})_

_* delete is aliased as @del()@ because delete is a reserved word in JavaScript_

Inside the Sammy.Application block, Routes can be defined in two ways: Using @route@ directly or using the verb shortcuts.

Directly:

{% highlight javascript %}
// route(verb, path, callback)
route('get', '#/', function() { 
  ...
});
{% endhighlight %}

Equivalent to:

{% highlight javascript %}
// verb(path, callback)
get('#/', function() { 
  ...
});
{% endhighlight %}

h4. Verbs

Out of the 4 verbs, @get@ is the most common. @get@ routes are invoked whenever the URL or URL hash changes. If the URL or hash matches one of the route paths, the callback for that route is invoked.

@post@, @put@, and @delete@ are only invoked by submitted forms. At @run()@ Sammy binds events to @submit()@ for all the forms. When a form is submitted, Sammy looks for a route that matches the path of the form (the action) and the verb (the method). If a route is found, the callback is executed. 

For example, this route:

{% highlight javascript %}
put('#/post/form', function() { 
  ...
  return false;
});
{% endhighlight %}

Would be executed when this form is submitted:

{% highlight html %}
<form action="#/post/form" method="PUT">
  <label>First Name</label><br />
  <input type="text" name="first_name" />
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
{% endhighlight %}

If you don't want to actually submit the form (allow its default behavior), you must return @false@ from the matching routes callback.

h4. Paths

Paths can be either full URIs (eg. /blah/blah/blah) or just the end hash (eg. #/mypath). The benefit of using the hash, is that you can define a single page application (no full refreshes) that preserves the back button/history.

Paths can be defined as strings or regular expressions. In fact internally, all paths are converted to regular expressions. That means these are equivilent:

{% highlight javascript %}
// string
get('/test/123', function() { 
  ...
});

// regexp
get(/^\/test\/123/, function() { 
  ...
});
{% endhighlight %}

Sammy also parses the path for named and un-named params. This means you can pull things like 'id's and 'slug's out of the path for dynamic parsing.

Any string starting with @:@ in a path will be pulled out and converted to a named param.

Given an app with this route:

{% highlight javascript %}
get('#/by_name/:name', function() {
  alert(this.params['name']);
});
{% endhighlight %}

Pointing the browser to @#/by_name/quirkey@ would give you the fabulous system prompt reading 'quirkey'. 

This works with multiple params in a single path. It does not work if you want to match strings that contain '/'. If you want that you can use Regexp and 'splat'.

Given a Regexp route:

{% highlight javascript %}
get(/\#\/by_name\/(.*)/, function() {
  alert(this.params['splat']);
});
{% endhighlight %}

Going to @#/by_name/quirkey@ will give you that same wonderful alert. However, because the Regexp is more lenient. @#/by_name/quirkey/boosh@ will also assign
@quirkey/boosh@ to splat. Using the Regexp in this way is useful for defining routes where you need more control over.

h4. Callbacks

Callbacks are just anonymous javascript functions passed to a route. They are only invoked when the route is matched.

Inside of the callback, the @this@ is a new @Sammy.EventContext@. Event context has a number of useful methods as well as some important attributes. "See the API for the full details.":api.html

For example, you can access the @params@, the current path (@path@), etc. More importantly you can run any jQuery methods or methods of the EventContext like @template@, @partial@, @redirect@, etc.

As of Sammy 0.3.0, the context is also the first argument to the callback. This prevents the need to do (Var) this
These are equivalent:

{% highlight javascript %}
get('#/by_name/:name', function() {
  this.redirect('#', this.params['name']);
});

get('#/by_name/:name', function(context) {
  context.redirect('#', this.params['name']);
});
{% endhighlight %}